# XMonad Testing Repository

This repository is useful for testing new features introduced into
[XMonad][] (and xmonad-contrib) as well as troubleshooting
new/existing configurations.  It is also an example of how to build
your own XMonad using [stack][] or [cabal][].

## XMonad and Custom Build Scripts

Starting with XMonad 0.13 you can customize how your configuration
file is compiled.  Want to use [stack][]?  How about [cabal][]?  No
problem!  Here's what you do:

  1. Set up a directory (or use `~/.xmonad`) where your source code
     can live.  Most build tools require that you also have a
     `*.cabal` file.  If you need inspiration you can use the
     `xmonad-testing.cabal` file from this repository.

     Need a good default configuration file?  Try `example-config.hs`.

  2. Create an executable file named `~/.xmonad/build`.  Use your
     favorite scripting language or shell flavor to execute your
     preferred build tool.  (Don't forget to `chmod +x`, it needs to
     be executable.)

     When called, the `build` script will be given a single
     command-line argument, the name of the output file it should
     produce.  This should be the executable generated by building
     your source code.

     There are example scripts in the `build-scripts` directory of
     this repository that show how to use either stack and cabal to
     build your source code.

Now, when you run `xmonad --recompile` XMonad will use your build
script instead of using GHC directly.

NOTE: Keep in mind that if you are using a `build` script XMonad might
take longer to start.  This is because XMonad invokes your script when
it starts and needs to wait for it to finish.  You may want to
consider exiting the script early if the source code hasn't changed
since the last time it was compiled.

## Testing Contributions and Configs

### Building All Dependencies with a Specific Configuration File

Using [stack][], building everything is quite easy:

    $ stack setup
    $ stack build

Using a recent enough [cabal][], building everything is even easier:

    $ cabal new-build

If you'd like to change which configuration file is being used for the
build, just replace `config.hs` with your own file.

### Testing in Isolation

Don't want to replace your current window manager just to play with
[XMonad][] or experiment with your configuration?  No problem.

Build XMonad with your configuration file of choice using the
direction above and then use the following script to run your custom
XMonad in another xorg session using [Xephyr][]:

    $ bin/run-in-xephyr.sh -h

### Testing Someone Else's Pull Request

  1. Clone this repository:

        $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad-testing.git
        $ cd xmonad-testing

  2. Bring in the changes from the pull request:

     For this example we will use an example pull request for
     `xmonad-contrib`.  The steps are the same for `xmonad`.

     At the bottom of the pull request page there should be some text
     that looks like:

     > Add more commits by pushing to the BRANCH branch on REPO.

     Here I will be using *BRANCH* and *REPO* as placeholders.
     Replace them in the following commands as necessary.

     You will need the URL for *REPO*, so either click on that link
     and copy the URL or use whatever support your browser gives you
     for copying the URL of a link.  Below I will refer to the URL for
     *REPO* as *REPO_URL*.

        $ cd xmonad-contrib
        $ git checkout -b BRANCH master
        $ git pull REPO_URL BRANCH
        $ cd ..

  3. Create a configuration file that will test the changes in the
     pull request.  Ideally you will create a config file in the
     `configs` directory and symlink it to `config.hs`.  The only
     thing that actually matters though is that the configuration ends
     up in the `config.hs` file at the root of `xmonad-testing`.

  4. Build xmonad with your changes.  Use the build instructions
     above.  You can build with `stack` or `cabal`.

  5. Launch `xmonad` in a new xorg server using the *Testing in
     Isolation* instructions above.

  6. Add a comment to the pull request detailing your experience
     testing the changes.

[xmonad]: http://xmonad.org/
[stack]: https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/
[cabal]: http://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/latest/nix-local-build-overview.html
[xephyr]: https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xephyr/
